doc/source/devguide.rst, before:

===========
Development
===========

This section explains the basics for developers who wish to contribute 
to a project.

.. contents:: Contents:
   :local:


Fork the repository
===================

The project is maintained on GitHub, which is a version control and a 
collaboration platform for software developers. To start first register 
on `GitHub <https://github.com>`_ and fork the 
`Project repository <https://github.com/project/project>`_ 
by clicking the **Fork** button in the header of the 
`Project repository <https://github.com/project/project>`_: 

.. image:: img/fork-repo.png

This successfully creates a copy of the project in your personal 
GitHub space. 

Clone the repository
====================

The next thing you want to do is to clone the repository you just created
in your personal GitHub space to your local machine. 

You can do this by clicking the **Clone in Desktop**  button in the bottom of 
the right hand side bar:

.. image:: img/clone-in-desktop.png

This will launch the GitHub desktop application 
(available for both `Mac <http://mac.github.com>`_ and 
`Win <http://windows.github.com>`_) 
and ask you where you want to save it. Select a location in your 
computer and feel comfortable with making modifications in the code.

Coding conventions
==================

We try to keep a consistent and readable code. So, please keep  
in mind the following style and syntax guidance before you start
coding. 

First of all the code should be well documented, easy to understand, 
and integrate well into the rest of the project. For example, when you 
are writing a new function always describe the purpose and the 
parameters::

    def my_awesome_func(a, b):
        """
        Adds two numbers.

        Parameters
        ----------
        a : scalar (float)
            First number to add

        b : scalar (float)
            Second number to add

        Returns
        -------
        output : scalar (float)
            Added value
        """
        return a+b

Package versioning
==================

We follow the X.Y.Z (Major.Minor.Patch) semantic for package versioning.
The version should be updated before each pull request accordingly. The
patch number is incremented for minor changes and bug fixes which do not
change the software's API. The minor version is incremented for releases
which add new, but backward-compatible, API features, and the major version
is incremented for API changes which are not backward-compatible. For
example, software which relies on version 2.1.5 of an API is compatible
with version 2.2.3, but not necessarily with 3.2.4.

Commiting changes
=================

After making some changes in the code, you may want to take a 
*snapshot* of the edits you made. That's when you make a *commit*. 
To do this, launch the GitHub desktop application and it should 
provide you all the changes in your code since your last commit.
Write a brief *Summary* and *Description* about the changes you 
made and click the **Commit** button: 

.. image:: img/commit-screen.png

You can continue to make changes, add modules, write your own functions, 
and take more *Commit snapshots* of your code writing process.

Contributing back
=================

Once you feel that the functionality you added would benefit the community, 
then you should consider contributing back to the project. For this, 
go to your online GitHub repository of the project and click on the *compare*
button to compare, review and create a pull request.

.. image:: img/create-revision.png

After clicking on this button, you are presented with a review page 
where you can get a high-level overview of what exactly has changed
between your forked branch and the original project repository. 
When you're ready to submit your pull request, click 
**Create pull request**:

.. image:: img/create-pr.png

Clicking on **Create pull request** sends you to a discussion page,  
where you can enter a title and optional description. It’s important to  
provide as much useful information and a rationale for why you’re making  
this Pull Request in the first place.

When you’re ready typing out your heartfelt argument, click on **Send 
pull request**. 

You’re done!

.. This text is partially adopted from GitHub guides and Wikipedia.

Commit message:

added links to fork/pull request

doc/source/devguide.rst, after:

===========
Development
===========

This section explains the basics for developers who wish to contribute 
to a project mantained on GitHub and using the
`fork <https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/>`_ /
`pull request <https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/>`_
mechanism for accepting developer contributions.

.. contents:: Contents:
   :local:


Fork the repository
===================

The project is maintained on GitHub, which is a version control and a 
collaboration platform for software developers. To start first register 
on `GitHub <https://github.com>`_ and fork the 
`Project repository <https://github.com/project/project>`_ 
by clicking the **Fork** button in the header of the 
`Project repository <https://github.com/project/project>`_: 

.. image:: img/fork-repo.png

This successfully creates a copy of the project in your personal 
GitHub space. 

Clone the repository
====================

The next thing you want to do is to clone the repository you just created
in your personal GitHub space to your local machine. 

You can do this by clicking the **Clone in Desktop**  button in the bottom of 
the right hand side bar:

.. image:: img/clone-in-desktop.png

This will launch the GitHub desktop application 
(available for both `Mac <http://mac.github.com>`_ and 
`Win <http://windows.github.com>`_) 
and ask you where you want to save it. Select a location in your 
computer and feel comfortable with making modifications in the code.

Coding conventions
==================

We try to keep a consistent and readable code. So, please keep  
in mind the following style and syntax guidance before you start
coding. 

First of all the code should be well documented, easy to understand, 
and integrate well into the rest of the project. For example, when you 
are writing a new function always describe the purpose and the 
parameters::

    def my_awesome_func(a, b):
        """
        Adds two numbers.

        Parameters
        ----------
        a : scalar (float)
            First number to add

        b : scalar (float)
            Second number to add

        Returns
        -------
        output : scalar (float)
            Added value
        """
        return a+b

Package versioning
==================

We follow the X.Y.Z (Major.Minor.Patch) semantic for package versioning.
The version should be updated before each pull request accordingly. The
patch number is incremented for minor changes and bug fixes which do not
change the software's API. The minor version is incremented for releases
which add new, but backward-compatible, API features, and the major version
is incremented for API changes which are not backward-compatible. For
example, software which relies on version 2.1.5 of an API is compatible
with version 2.2.3, but not necessarily with 3.2.4.

Commiting changes
=================

After making some changes in the code, you may want to take a 
*snapshot* of the edits you made. That's when you make a *commit*. 
To do this, launch the GitHub desktop application and it should 
provide you all the changes in your code since your last commit.
Write a brief *Summary* and *Description* about the changes you 
made and click the **Commit** button: 

.. image:: img/commit-screen.png

You can continue to make changes, add modules, write your own functions, 
and take more *Commit snapshots* of your code writing process.

Contributing back
=================

Once you feel that the functionality you added would benefit the community, 
then you should consider contributing back to the project. For this, 
go to your online GitHub repository of the project and click on the *compare*
button to compare, review and create a pull request.

.. image:: img/create-revision.png

After clicking on this button, you are presented with a review page 
where you can get a high-level overview of what exactly has changed
between your forked branch and the original project repository. 
When you're ready to submit your pull request, click 
**Create pull request**:

.. image:: img/create-pr.png

Clicking on **Create pull request** sends you to a discussion page,  
where you can enter a title and optional description. It’s important to  
provide as much useful information and a rationale for why you’re making  
this Pull Request in the first place.

When you’re ready typing out your heartfelt argument, click on **Send 
pull request**. 

You’re done!

.. This text is partially adopted from GitHub guides and Wikipedia.
